# Streaming

This page will explain the different configurations and options for the
Surrogate streamer (srtg-streamer) package as well as the watcherstream
(srtg-watcherstream). 

## Streamer

The srtg-streamer has various different configuration options and there are
multiple advanced setups one can build. This section explains some of the more
complex configurations. Installation and basic usage is covered in
[Getting Started](getting_started.html#installing-surrogate-streamer).

## Audio

For in-depth audio documentation, see [Audio](audio).

## Watcherstream

This section explains more in-depth configuration of watcherstream. For installation
and basic usage, see [Getting Started](getting_started.html#installing-surrogate-watcher-stream)
The srtg-watcherstream can operate in multiple modes, depending on the users'
needs. Following modes are supported:

- default
- obs
- rtsp

The mode can be selected by adding `watcherstream_mode = <mode>` to the top-level
of `/etc/srtg/srtg.toml`

### Default mode
The `default` mode uploads the player view as-is to Surrogate.tv.

### OBS mode
If you want to customize your stream further, `obs` mode can be used. In this mode,
the `srtg-watcherstream` does not generate the stream but instead only uploads a stream
generated by [OBS](https://obsproject.com/).

The srtg-watcherstream does not need any other confiuration except the aforementioned
watcherstream_mode. After changing the mode, run `sudo systemctl restart srtg` to
reload the configuration.

OBS needs to be configured to **record** the stream in HLS format to a specific
location. To do so,
1) Go to `settings->Output` in OBS
2) Set *Recording Format* to `m3u8` or `HLS` (only one of these should be in the dropdown list)
3) Set *Recording Path* to `/tmp/srtg_hls`
4) Go to `settings->Advanced`
5) Set *Filename Formatting* under *Recording* to `main`
6) Turn on *Overwrite if file exists* under the filename formatting option

TODO kuvia

After these steps, click **Start recording** and the stream should soon appear
in your game's page. If there is need to stream to some other service than
Surrogate.tv at the same time, OBS supports recording and streaming simultaneously.
In that case, setup streaming settings for whichever service you are using according
to their instructions.

### RTSP mode

The RTSP mode can be used when the watcherstream is needed on another machine,
e.g. if you are running multiple Raspberry Pi based robots and want to create
a sophisticated watcher experience that aggregates streams from multiple robots.

The srtg-watcherstream does not need any other configuration except setting
watcherstream_mode to rtsp. After chaning the mode, run `sudo systemctl restart srtg` to
reload the configuration.

First, you need to setup OBS. To get the stream as an input into an OBS scene, do the following
1) Check the Raspi's local IP from admin panel
  - Go to your game's settings page
  - Select Game Engine tab
  - Scroll down to the correct robot and copy the IP address from Local Config URL
2) Add a new `VLC Video Source`.
3) Click the **+** sign on the right and select `Add Path/URL`.
4) Add the following URL: `rtsp://<local_ip_from_step_1>:8554/unicast`

Then you need to setup the stream uploading. The steps for this depend on your platform

#### Linux

On a (Debian based, e.g. Ubuntu, Mint, Debian) Linux, install srtg-watcherstream
by running `sudo apt install srtg-watcherstream`. Refer to [OBS mode](#obs-mode) on the setup.

#### Windows

On a Windows 10 machine, first install [Windows Subsystem for Linux 2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).
Run a Ubuntu 20.04 virtual machine in WSL2 according to the instructions.
Once you have an Ubuntu VM running, install watcherstream package. Following commands need to be run:
```
sudo sh -c 'echo deb https://apt.surrogate.tv/ buster main >> /etc/apt/sources.list'

sudo apt-key adv --keyserver "hkps://keys.openpgp.org" --recv-keys "58278AC826D269F82F1AD74AD7337870E6E07980"

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt install srtg-watcherstream
```
The setup steps for the stream itself are **almost** same as in [OBS section](#obs-mode).
Following extra steps need to be done:
1) Create config directory by running `sudo mkdir /etc/srtg`
2) Create a config file with your choice of editor, e.g. `nano /etc/srtg/srtg.toml`
3) Add `watcherstream_mode = obs` to the config file.
4) Add a game engine section to the config file
```
[game_engine]
url = "https://ge.surrogate.tv/signaling"
token = "<token from your admin panel>"
```
5) In the **OBS settings**, instead of setting **Recording Path** according to
[OBS instructions](#obs-mode), set it to the path pointing to the WSL2.
The path should be `\\wsl$\Ubuntu-20.04\tmp\srtg_hls`.

If this path does not work
for some reason, open a file explorer in Windows. Type `\\wsl$` to the address
bar and open the directory of the virtual machine. Find directory `tmp` and open it.
Finally, open directory `srtg_hls` and copy the address found on the address bar
and enter this path to OBS.

After that, because WSL2 machines do not use systemd, you need to *manually*
run the watcherstream program. To do so, run `sudo python3 /usr/bin/srtg-watcherstream`.
Note that this does not run the program as a service and you have to re-run it
always when you reboot your computer or when there is an error.

